editmask
========

A
This is a set of `python` scripts for making ane editing the land mask for a model grid. 

The `grid` is a curvilinear rectangular grid defined in a grid file. `Grid
coordinates` is a linear coordinate system for the grid with coordinates X=i,
Y=j for the center of the (i,j)-th grid cells with $(0, 0)$ in the lower left
corner.

A `land mask` is a 2D array over the grid with values one at sea and zero over
land.

A `coast file` is a text file with two columns for X and Y grid coordinates. The
coast polygons are separated by lines with two NaNs. A coast file can be made by
the script ``make_coast.py``. This is set up for a polar stereographic map
projection defined by parameters `xp, yp, dx, ylon`. It can easily be modied for
other grids where the geographical mapping can be defined by a `proj4string`. The
script ``plot_coast.py`` can be used to check that the coast line looks all
right. 

Given the coast file, an initial land mask can be made by the script
``initmask.py``. It simply marks all grid cells where the center is on land as
land cells. It takes a `netcdf` grid file as input. The grid file must define
dimensions in the X and Y directions. It overwrites any existing land mask in
the file so it is recommended to work on a copy of the grid file.

The script `editmask.py` provides an interactive editor for the land mask. The
input is a grid file with an initial land mask and a coast line file. The basic
use is to manually adjust the land mask to intricate fjord geometry. The input
Both land and sea are shown with  yellowâ€“green and blue check board patterns
together with the coast line in `matplotlib`. Ordinary matplotlib controls can
be used to zoom and pan the image. Clicking on a grid cell toggles between land
and sea. Critical cells, sea cells without neighbour in X or Y direction is
marked as red. Semi-critical cells, sea cells that are not included in a 2x2
block of sea cells are marked as orange.

Using the subgrid limiters i0, i1 in X-direction and j0, j1 in Y-direction it is
possible to work sequentially on subgrids to speed up the response from the
system, if needed.